doc QBFT and update consensus docs (#115)
ConsenSys/doc.goquorum: docs/HowTo/Configure/Consensus-Protocols/QBFT.md

---
description: Configuring QBFT consensus
---

# Configuring QBFT consensus

GoQuorum implements the QBFT Proof-of-Authority (PoA) consensus protocol.
You can [create a private network using QBFT](../../../Tutorials/Private-Network/Create-QBFT-Network.md).

!!! warning

>     QBFT is currently an early access feature. It is not recommended for production networks with business critical impact.

Reviewer: Do we by any chance have an estimated date that QBFT becomes generally available?

Reviewer 2: putting myself in the thread because I also want to know when this happens (for EEA who are watching for it)

Reviewer 3: @joshuafernandes after this release and we see the feedback from users that have upgraded.

        "gasLimit" : "0xf7b760",
        "difficulty": "0x1",
        "mixHash": "0x63746963616c2062797a616e74696e65206661756c7420746f6c6572616e6365",
        "coinbase": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "alloc": {},
        "number": "0x0",
        "gasUsed": "0x0",
        "parentHash": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
      }
    ```

The properties specific to QBFT are in the `istanbul` section:

* `epoch` - Number of blocks that should pass before pending validator votes are reset.
* `policy` - Proposer selection policy, which is 0 (Round Robin) or 1 (Sticky).
  'Round Robin' is where validators take turns in proposing blocks, and 'Sticky' is where a single validator proposes
  blocks until they go offline or are unreachable.
* `ceil2Nby3Block` - Sets the block number from which to use an updated formula for calculating the number of faulty nodes.
  For new networks, we recommended setting this to 0 to use the updated formula immediately.
* `extraData` - RLP encoded string with a list of validators.
  RLP encoding is a space-efficient object serialization scheme used in Ethereum.

> 

Reviewer 4: Can we also add brief description of `testQBFTBlock` fork block

---
description: Configuring QBFT consensus
---

# Configuring QBFT consensus

GoQuorum implements the QBFT Proof-of-Authority (PoA) consensus protocol.
You can [create a private network using QBFT](../../../Tutorials/Private-Network/Create-QBFT-Network.md).

!!! warning

    QBFT is currently an early access feature. It is not recommended for production networks with business critical impact.

In QBFT networks, approved accounts known as validators validate transactions and blocks.
Validators take turns to create the next block.
Before inserting a block onto the chain, a super-majority (greater than 66%) of validators must first sign the block.

Existing validators propose and vote to add or remove validators.
Adding or removing a validator requires a majority vote (greater than 50%) of validators.

!!! important

    Configure your network to ensure you never lose 1/3 or more of your validators.
    If more than 1/3 of validators stop participating, new blocks are no longer created, and the network stalls.
    It may take significant time to recover once nodes are restarted.

> Blocks in QBFT are final, which means that there are no forks and any valid block must be somewhere in the main chain.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Blocks in QBFT are final, meaning there are no forks, and valid blocks must be in the main chain.
```
